The President:
Hi, everybody.
On Tuesday, America
went to the polls.
And the message you sent was
clear: you voted for action,
not politics as usual.
You elected us to focus
on your jobs, not ours.
That's why I've invited leaders
of both parties to the White
House next week, so we can
start to build consensus around
challenges we can
only solve together.
I also intend to
bring in business,
labor and civic leaders
from around the country,
from outside Washington, to get
their ideas and input as well.
At a time when our economy is
still recovering from the Great
Recession, our top priority
has to be jobs and growth.
That's the focus of the plan
I talked about throughout
the campaign.
It's a plan to reward businesses
that create jobs here in
America, and give people access
to the education and training
that those businesses
are looking for.
It's a plan to rebuild our
infrastructure and keep us on
the cutting edge of
innovation and clean energy.
And it's a plan to reduce
our deficit in a balanced and
responsible way.
This is even more important
because at the end of this year,
we face a series of deadlines
that require us to make major
decisions about how to
pay down our deficit --
decisions that will have a huge
impact on the economy and the
middle class, not only
now, but in the future.
Last year, I worked with
Democrats and Republicans to cut
a trillion dollars'
worth of spending,
and I intend to work with
both parties to do more.
But as I said over and over
again on the campaign trail,
we can't just cut our
way to prosperity.
If we're serious about
reducing the deficit,
we have to combine spending
cuts with revenue --
and that means asking the
wealthiest Americans to pay a
little more in taxes.
That's how we did it when
Bill Clinton was President.
And that's the only way we can
afford to invest in education
and job training
and manufacturing --
all the ingredients of a
strong middle class and a
strong economy.
Already, I've put forward a
detailed plan that allows us to
make these investments while
reducing our deficit by
$4 trillion over
the next decade.
Now, I'm open to
compromise and new ideas.
But I refuse to accept any
approach that isn't balanced.
I will not ask students or
seniors or middle-class families
to pay down the entire deficit
while people making over
$250,000 a year aren't asked
to pay a dime more in taxes.
This was a central
question in the election.
And on Tuesday, we found out
that the majority of Americans
agree with my approach --
Democrats, Independents,
and some Republicans.
Now we need a majority
in Congress to listen --
and they should start by making
sure taxes don't go up on the
98% of Americans making under
$250,000 a year starting
January 1st.
This is something
we all agree on --
that taxes on middle-class
families should not go up.
Congress should permanently
extend the middle-class tax cuts
right now; even as we
negotiate a broader deficit
reduction package.
It's a step that would give
millions of families and 97% of
small businesses the peace of
mind that will lead to new jobs
and faster growth.
There's no reason to wait.
We know there will be
differences and disagreements in
the months to come.
That's part of what makes
our political system work.
But on Tuesday, you said
loud and clear that you won't
tolerate dysfunction, or
politicians who see compromise
as a dirty word.
Not when so many of your
families are still struggling.
Instead, you want cooperation.
You want action.
That's what I plan to
deliver in my second term,
and I expect to find leaders
from both parties willing
to join me.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.